# Olin College Student Government By-Laws
*As agreed upon by the Student Government on May 1, 2015.*

## Part I. Relative to the Student Government.

### Article 1. The Student Government.

#### Section 1. Constituency.

The Student Government serves and acts as the voice of the Student Body of the
College. The Student Body will be defined as all currently enrolled students of
the College who plan to graduate from Olin College. At times when the Student
Government, its members, or its Committees must communicate to the entire
Student Body, they will email the Student Government Announcements mailing
list.

#### Section 2. Meetings.

Meetings of the Student Government will occur monthly at a regularly scheduled
time set by the President and will be open for the Student Body to attend and
participate in discussion. A meeting of the Student Government may be canceled,
postponed, or rescheduled at the President’s discretion. Additional meetings
may also be scheduled as appropriate at the President’s discretion.

The time, location, and agenda of each normally scheduled meeting of the
Student Government will be announced at least 24 hours in advance in an email
sent to the Student Body and the CORe Discussion mailing list. Additional or
rescheduled meetings that do not occur during normally scheduled times should
be announced to the Student Body at least 48 hours in advance, if at all
possible.

Meetings of the Student Government will serve as the exclusive venue to pass
Official Actions, as described in Section 4.  Additionally, meetings of the
Student Government can serve as venues to discuss and formulate Official
Actions, discuss the state of the Student Body and Student Experience, allow
Committees to take charge of proposed projects, and other activities deemed
relevant by the presiding officer.

#### Section 3. Quorum.

In order for the proceedings of a meeting of the Student Government to be
valid, a quorum of the Student Government must be present in person or by video
conference. At least 7 of the 13 members of the Council and at least 3 of the 4
Committee Leaders will be considered a quorum of the Student Government.

#### Section 4. Official Actions.

Official Actions of the Student Government will include issuing Allocation
Orders, amending the By-Laws, and reviewing amendments to the Constitution. All
Official Actions of the Student Government may be passed with approval of a
majority of the voting members present. In order for a vote to be taken on an
Official Action, a motion to its effect must be recognized by the presiding
officer and seconded by another voting member. All Official Actions must be
recorded separately and numbered.

#### Section 5. Allocation Orders.

The Student Government may issue Allocation Orders to appropriate the Student
Activities Fund. Allocation Orders of the Student Government may allocate funds
from the Student Activities Fund for the virtual funds. Allocation Orders may
reallocate funds from one virtual fund to another. Allocation Orders may also
restrict the use of any funds which originated from the Student Activities
Fund.

#### Section 6. The Student Activities Fund.

Each year, after the newly elected Student Government assumes office, the Vice
President for Finance will draft and introduce Allocation Order 0. Allocation
Order 0 will appropriate money for the virtual funds defined in
[Article 9, Section 2](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-2-virtual-funds).

#### Section 7. A Service to the Community.

Since serving on the Student Government or a Student Government Committee is a
service to the community, no elected official will be monetarily compensated
for their time in office.

### Article 2. The Council of Olin Representatives.

#### Section 1. Composition.

The Council of Olin Representatives will be comprised of three executive
officers and ten representatives, each of whom will have one full vote on the
Council and the Student Government. The executive officers are:

1. the President
2. the Vice President for Communications
3. the Vice President for Finance

Five of the ten representatives will be Specialized Representatives who will
each meet directly with senior administrators of the College on a regular
basis. These representatives will include:

1. a Representative to Operations
2. a Representative to Marketing and Communications and Development, Family,
   and Alumni Relations
3. a Representative to Admissions and the Office of Student Affairs and
   Resources
4. a Representative for Curriculum and Faculty
5. a Representative for Intercollegiate Affairs

The remaining five representatives will be Class Representatives. These
representatives will include:

1. a Senior Class Representative
2. a Junior Class Representative
3. a Sophomore Class Representative
4. two First Year Class Representatives.

#### Section 2. Executives.

There will be three executives who will lead the Student Government and the
Council:

**President.** The President serves as the Student Body President and
represents the Student Government to the Administration and Board of Trustees.
The President serves as the presiding officer of the Student Government and the
Council and as such calls, presides over, and creates agendas for meetings of
the Student Government and the Council. The President will moderate Town
Meetings called by the Student Government.

**Vice President for Communications.** In the absence of the President, the
Vice President for Communications will preside over the Student Government and
the Council. The Vice President for Communications will serve as the secretary
of the Student Government and the Council and, as such, will keep meeting
minutes and records of Official Actions and ensure that such documents are
accessible to the Student Body, as specified in [Article
13](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#article-13-transparency).
The Vice President for Communications will advertise Student Government and
Council related events, organize the publishing of the monthly report, and
actively encourage Student Body participation in the improvement of the Student
Government and Olin culture.

**Vice President for Finance.** The Vice President for Finance will keep the
official records of the Student Activities Fund and inform the Student Body on
how the Student Activities Fund is being allocated and spent throughout the
year by, at least, emailing a report detailing the state of the Student
Activities Fund to the Student Body once per semester. The Vice President for
Finance will be the main point of contact for processing all payments and
reimbursements for Student Activities Fund purchases. The Vice President for
Finance will draft and introduce Allocation Order 0, as described in [Article
9, Section 2](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-2-virtual-funds).
The Vice President for Finance has the authority to approve the creation or
removal of student group financial accounts which are separate from the main
Student Activities Fund account.

#### Section 3. Specialized Representatives.

There will be five Specialized Representatives who will represent the entire
Student Body and meet directly with members of the President’s Cabinet of the
College. Each Specialized Representative will:

1. become familiar with the operations and policies of their relevant
   Administrative Department(s),
2. assist their relevant Administrative Department(s) in gathering student
   opinions on issues important to the Administration,
3. bring concerns of the Student Body to the attention of the Administration,
4. bring concerns of the Administration to the attention of the Student
   Government,
5. make an effort to develop lasting solutions to issues of concern to the
   Student Body and the Administration, and
6. use their combined knowledge of the Student Body and their relevant
   Administrative Department(s) to prevent issues before they arise.

The Student Body will elect the following five Specialized Representatives:

**Representative to Operations.** The Representative to Operations will liaise
with the College’s Vice President for Operations and Chief Information Officer
and will keep themselves informed of any actions or initiatives related to
student dining, facilities, or information technology at the College.
Additionally, the Representative will solicit volunteers for operational
committees and, after the completion of the committee appointment process,
notify volunteers of whether or not they have been appointed. The
Representative will keep an open dialog with each operational committee
appointee in order to stay informed of the activities of each committee, and
invite each appointee to at least one Council meeting per semester. The
Representative will keep a list of operational committees and make that list
available to the Student Body.

**Representative to Marketing and Communications and Development, Family, and
Alumni Relations.** The Representative to Marketing and Communications, and
Development, Family, and Alumni Relations will liaise with the College’s Chief
Marketing Officer and Vice President of Development, Family, and Alumni
Relations and will keep themselves informed of any actions or initiatives
happening in their relevant departments.

**Representative to Admissions and the Office of Student Affairs and
Resources.** The Representative to Admissions and the Office of Student Affairs
and Resources will liaise with the Dean of Student Life and the Dean of
Admissions and will keep themselves informed of any actions or initiatives
happening in their relevant departments.

**Representative for Curriculum and Faculty.** The Representative for
Curriculum and Faculty will liaise with the Associate Dean of Curriculum, the
Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Development, and the Provost and Dean of
Faculty and will keep themselves informed of any actions or initiatives related
to curriculum and faculty. Additionally, the Representative will solicit
volunteers for faculty committees and, after the completion of the committee
appointment process, notify volunteers of whether or not they have been
appointed. The Representative will keep an open dialog with each faculty
committee appointee in order to stay informed of the activities of each
committee and invite each appointee to at least one Council meeting per
semester. The Representative will keep a list of operational committees and
make that list available to the Student Body.

**Representative for Intercollegiate Affairs.** The Representative for
Intercollegiate Affairs will liaise with the Director of the Collaboratory and
the Administrative Assistant to the Babson/Olin/Wellesley Three College
Collaboration and serve as the Student Body’s Ambassador to
Babson/Olin/Wellesley Three College Collaboration and will keep themselves
informed of any actions or initiatives related to these groups. The
Representative will serve as Olin’s Ambassador to the Babson/Olin/Wellesley
Student Council which advises the administrators of the Collaboration on issues
of interest to the students of the three colleges. The Representative will keep
the student body informed as to what relations the College is developing with
other institutions and how students can be involved in these relations.

As the definition, function, and communication pathways of the Specialized
Representatives are to be discovered during the first year of this document’s
existence (2015-2016 school year), [Article 2, Section
3](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-3-specialized-representatives)
must be amended before the Spring Elections of 2016.

#### Section 4. Class Representatives.

There will be five Class Representatives who will represent their respective
graduating classes. Each Class Representative will:

1. actively solicit feedback from their respective class to identify issues of
   concern and potential areas of improvement of student life that could be
   addressed by the Council,
2. keep in touch with their class to better advise the Student Government and
   the Council of the interests, wishes, and feelings of their class, and
3. participate in the organization of class events, and/or the allocation of
   their Class Events Fund.

Each class will have one class representative, except for the First Year Class,
which will have two representatives, as this class would otherwise be
under-represented on the Council.

#### Section 5. Meetings.

In general, meetings of the Council will occur weekly and the Student Body will
be highly encouraged to participate in open sessions. Meetings of the Student
Government count as meetings of the Council. A meeting of the Council may be
canceled, postponed, or rescheduled at the President’s discretion. Additional
meetings may also be scheduled as appropriate at the President’s discretion.

The time, location, and agenda of each normally scheduled meeting of the
Council will be announced at least 24 hours in advance with an email sent to
the CORe Discussion mailing list. The email sent to the Student Body announcing
the meeting of the Student Government may be used to remind students of the
weekly meetings of the Council but may not replace the weekly CORe Discussion
mailing list announcement.

Meetings of the Council will serve as the exclusive venue to pass Official
Actions, as described in Section 8.  Additionally, meetings of the Council can
serve as venues to discuss and formulate Official Actions, discuss topics
relating to the Administration, discuss the state of the Student Body and
Student Experience, and other activities deemed relevant by the presiding
officer.

#### Section 6. Quorum.

In order for the proceedings of a meeting of the Council to be valid, a quorum
of the Council must be present in person or by video conference. At least 7 of
the 13 voting members of the Council will be considered a quorum of the
Council.

#### Section 7. Open and Closed Session.

Discussions, agenda items, and votes of the Council will take place in one of
two states: Open Session or Closed Session. When the Council is in Open
Session, any member of the Olin community may be present and participate in
discussion. When the Council is in Closed Session, only members of the Council
and people whose attendance is declared appropriate by the President may be
present and participate. Minutes and relevant documentation taken during closed
session will be kept confidential, as described in [Article
13](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#article-13-transparency).
The President may declare the Council in Closed Session during discussions and
votes regarding Allocation Orders, Committee Appointments, Disagreement
Resolutions, or unforeseeable sensitive issues.

#### Section 8. Official Actions.

Official Actions of the Council will include issuing Allocation Orders,
publishing Recommendations, establishing Council Projects, voting on Committee
Appointments, and arbitrating Disagreement Resolutions. All Official Actions of
the Council may be passed with the approval of a majority of the voting members
present with the exception of Committee Appointments which will be done by
approval voting and Allocation Orders of the Discretionary Fund or the Class
Events Funds which may be approved by a smaller subsection of the Council as
defined in [Article 2, Sections 11](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-11-discretionary-fund)
[and 12](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-12-class-events-funds)
respectively. In order for a vote to be taken on an Official Action, a motion
to its effect must be proposed and seconded. All Official Actions of the
Council must be recorded separately and numbered.

#### Section 9. Allocation Orders.

The Council may issue Allocation Orders appropriating the Student Initiatives
Fund. The Council may only vote on Allocation Orders at in-person meetings of
the Council.

#### Section 10. Student Initiatives Fund.

By Allocation Order, the Council may allocate and spend the Student Initiatives
Fund for purposes not covered by the other virtual funds.

#### Section 11. Discretionary Fund.

When the Council is not in session and for purposes which cannot wait until the
next meeting of the Council, the President may issue Allocation Orders to
allocate and spend the Discretionary Fund with the consent of the Vice
President for Finance. For the purposes of documentation, Discretionary Fund
Allocation Orders will be documented in the minutes of the next meeting of the
Council and treated as an Official Action.

#### Section 12. Class Events Funds.

There will be one Class Events Fund for each of the four graduating classes.
The relevant Class Representative may issue Allocation Orders to allocate and
spend their Class Events Fund with the consent of the Vice President for
Finance. Events and activities paid for using a Class Events Fund should be
directed towards the graduating class corresponding to the fund from which the
money was allocated. For the purposes of documentation, Class Events Fund
Allocation Orders will be documented in the minutes of the next meeting of the
Council and treated as an Official Action.

Class Representatives are encouraged to enlist the help of fellow classmates to
organize and plan class events.

#### Section 13. Recommendations.

As the core of the Student Government, the Council may express the official
opinion of the Student Government in the form of Recommendations. It is the
responsibility of the President to convey Recommendations to the appropriate
member(s) of the College’s Administration.

#### Section 14. Council Projects.

The establishment of a Council Project is a commitment by the Council to
address an issue or topic. To establish a Project, a Project Document must be
approved by the Council. A Project Document must include at least: a title, the
date established, the goal, and the timeframe over which the goal is to be
achieved. The Project Document is a working document. The President will
appoint a Project Lead who is responsible for coordinating the Project and a
Project Team who will assist in the execution of the Project. Project Teams can
consist of any members of the Olin community. When a Project is established, it
is “Active” and is the responsibility of the Council until the Council marks it
“Complete,” “Suspended,” or “Unsuccessful.” Any Projects remaining at the end
of the school year will carry over into the next year. Council Projects may be
proposed by any member of the Olin community.

#### Section 15. Committee Appointments.

When requested by the Administration to appoint students to faculty and
operational committees, the Council will begin the appointment process. In the
appointment process, the Council will notify the Student Body of openings on
committees and the position’s description, and students will be allowed at
least three days to volunteer. At a meeting following the volunteering period,
the Council will discuss the candidates and appoint students to the committees
by excellence voting.

#### Section 16. Appellate Authority.

If a major disagreement arises between a Director and their Assistant Director
or between a Committee and a club or organization, either party may appeal to
the Council by contacting the presiding officer in writing and requesting that
the Council arbitrate the disagreement. At the next meeting of the Council, the
presiding officer will request the presence of both parties, and the Council
will hear testimony. The parties involved in the disagreement will then leave
the room, and the Council will deliberate. If appropriate, the Council may
invite the parties involved to return in order to suggest a solution to the
disagreement. However, the Council must vote without the parties involved
present and its decision will be final.

#### Section 17. Monthly Reports.

Each month, the Council will publish a brief report to the Student Body
outlining the accomplishments and activities of the Student Government for that
month as well as any activities of the Administration that would be of interest
to the Student Body.

#### Section 18. Ad Hoc Representatives.

The Student Government establishes the following non-voting ad hoc
representatives of the Council:

**The Senior Class Activities Representative.** The Senior Class Activities
Representative will be elected by the rising senior class following normal
spring election procedures. The Senior Class Activities Representative will
ensure the completion of senior class obligations such as ordering class rings,
organizing the class gift, fundraising, serving on the Commencement Steering
Committee, and supporting the class representative in organizing class
activities and Senior Week activities.

## Part II. Relative to the Committees.

### Article 3. The Honor Board.

#### Section 1. Function.

The composition, purpose, operation, and powers of the Honor Board are detailed
in the Honor Code. Additional powers may be allotted to them in the
Constitution and Bylaws of the Student Government.

#### Section 2. Honor Board Fund.

The Chair and Vice Chair of the Honor Board may allocate the Honor Board Fund
with joint approval.

### Article 4. The Student Activities Committee.

#### Section 1. Function.

Pursuant to its mission, as defined in the Constitution ([Article 6, Section
1](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_constitution.md#section-1-mission-1)),
the Student Activities Committee will plan and execute campus-wide events,
facilitate club events as requested, and maintain a public calendar of events.
The Committee will hold events of interest to the Student Body.

#### Section 2. Officers.

The Committee will have two elected Officers, the Director and Assistant
Director of Student Activities.

**Director of Student Activities.** The Director of Student Activities will run
meetings of the Committee and generally oversee the Committee’s activities. The
Director will attend meetings of the Student Government and be prepared to
report the activities and spending of the Committee. The Director will send a
summary of spendings to the Vice President for Finance once a week broken down
by event. With the agreement of the Assistant Director, the Director may
appropriate money from the Student Events Fund.

**Assistant Director of Student Activities.** The Assistant Director of Student
Activities will assist the Director in the operations of the Committee. The
Assistant Director will keep the financial records, meeting minutes, and
membership list of the Committee. In the absence of the Director, the Assistant
Director will perform the duties of the Director and attend meetings of the
Student Government. With the agreement of the Director, the Assistant Director
may appropriate money from the Student Events Fund.

#### Section 3. General Membership.

Any student interested in helping to organize school-wide events and who
attends meetings of the Committee will be considered part of the General
Membership of the Committee. The Assistant Director of Student Activities will
keep a list of the General Membership.

#### Section 4. Meetings.

The Committee will meet weekly to coordinate and plan for upcoming events and
social opportunities as well as reflect on the success of previous activities.
Meetings of the Committee will include the Officers and the General Membership.
Announcements of meetings times and agendas will be sent to the SAC mailing
list prior to meetings.

#### Section 5. Student Events Fund.

The Student Events Fund will be allocated jointly by the Director and Assistant
Director of Student Activities for the purpose of fulfilling the Mission and
Function of the Committee. Events and activities paid for using the Student
Events Fund should be open to the entire Student Body.

#### Section 6. Funding Procedures.

Any member of the Student Body may request funding from the Student Events Fund
for an activity consistent with the Function of the Committee by submitting a
request to the Director of Student Activities. So that one person cannot
allocate large amounts of money alone, both the Director and Assistant Director
must approve allocations. The Director will serve as the point of contact for
students who are requesting funds from the Committee, but any request must be
approved by both Officers. The Director must send a summary of expenditures to
the Vice President for Finance once per week broken down by event.

### Article 5. The Committee for Clubs and Organizations.

#### Section 1. Function.

Pursuant to its mission, as defined in the Constitution ([Article 7, Section
1](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_constitution.md#section-1-mission-2)),
the Committee for Clubs and Organizations will allocate organization budgets
annually and allocate funds to clubs upon request.

#### Section 2. Officers.

The Committee will have two elected Officers, the Director and Assistant
Director of Clubs and Organizations.

**Director of Clubs and Organizations.** The Director of Clubs and
Organizations will run meetings of the Committee and generally oversee the
Committee’s activities.  The Director will approve the creation of Student
Groups, classify them as Clubs or Organizations, and generally help them meet
their goals. The Director will send a summary of spendings to the Vice
President for Finance once a week broken down by Student Group. The Director
will attend meetings of the Student Government and be prepared to report the
activities and spending of the Committee. With the agreement of the Assistant
Director, the Director may appropriate money from the Clubs and Organizations
Fund.

**Assistant Director of Clubs and Organizations.** The Assistant Director of
Clubs and Organizations will assist the Director in the operations of the
Committee. The Assistant Director will keep financial records of the Committee.
In the absence of the Director, the Assistant Director will perform the duties
of the Director and attend meetings of the Student Government. With the
agreement of the Director, the Assistant Director may appropriate money from
the Clubs and Organizations Fund.

#### Section 3. General Membership.

The General Membership of the Committee shall include the leadership of every
student club and organization.

#### Section 4. Meetings.

Meetings of the Committee will include the Officers and the General Membership
of the Committee. Meetings may be called at the discretion of the Director of
Clubs and Organizations as necessary for the purpose of informing clubs and
organizations of funding procedures and issues of importance.

#### Section 5. Student Group Classifications.

Student Groups will be categorized by the Director of Clubs and Organizations
into one of two classifications. A Student Group’s classification determines
how a Student Group is allocated money.

**Clubs.** By default, Student Groups will be classified as Clubs. Clubs
generally have a smaller membership, are newer, and/or usually request less
money from the Committee. Clubs request money from the Committee as needed by
sending a request to the Director.

**Organizations.** A Student Group may petition to the Director to be
classified as an Organization. Organizations are student groups that have
demonstrated a need for significant or consistent funding. Notable indicators
for being a good candidate for Organization status include having at least 10
members, and existing for at least 1 year. Failed petitions to become an
Organization can be appealed to the Council of Olin Representatives, who will
decide the status of the Group for the remainder of the school year.
Organizations request an annual budget from the Committee at the beginning of
the school year. Once a budget is allocated, an Organization may spend its
money without further approval from the Committee or its Officers.
Organizations may request additional funds as needed from the Committee.
Maintaining Organization status is contingent on an Organization keeping
accurate financial records which can be produced upon request. Organization
status is granted for one year at a time.

#### Section 6. Clubs and Organizations Fund.

The Clubs and Organizations Fund will be allocated jointly by the Director and
Assistant Director of Clubs and Organizations for the purpose of fulfilling the
Mission and Function of the Committee.

#### Section 7. Funding Procedure.

The Director of Clubs and Organizations will define the system for requesting
club funding every year. A description of this system will be made available to
the Student Body. The following rules will apply to club funding requests:

1. Every request must come in at least 72 hours before the event. Any purchases
   from amazon.com require a 2-week requesting period. Requests not meeting
   these deadlines are not guaranteed a response in time for the event.
2. Funding should be requested and approved before the event is advertised if
   the event is contingent on funding.
3. Every request must be approved before the items are purchased. Anything
   purchased before the request is approved will not be reimbursed.
4. If a club does not properly fulfill the club funding request and
   reimbursement process once, they receive a short warning.
5. If a club does not properly fulfill the club funding request and
   reimbursement process twice, the Director of Clubs and Organizations may
   withhold club funding for 2 months.
6. If a club does not properly fulfill the club funding request and
   reimbursement process another time after the 2 month penalty, the Director
   of Clubs and Organizations may withhold club funding for the remainder of
   the year.
7. If a club fails to turn in a receipt within 7 days of the purchase the club
   will either be given a warning or a one month spending ban, at the
   discretion of the Vice President for Finance.
8. Failure to turn in two receipts in the course of one academic year may
   result in a spending ban for the remainder of the semester, at the
   discretion of the Vice President for Finance.

#### Section 8. Spending Limits and Rules.

In order to fairly distribute club funding, the following spending limits and
rules will be established.

##### General Guidelines.
1. When a request is made, the requestor should include the expected turnout
   for the event. The Director of Clubs and Organizations may challenge the
   expected turnout and ask for some reasonable reassurance the number will be
   accurate.
2. For a one-time, on-campus event, the suggested limit is $5 per person.
3. For a one-time, off-campus event, the suggested limit is $10 per person.
4. For a recurring on-campus event, the suggested limit is $3 per person.
5. For a recurring off-campus event, the suggested limit is $5 per person.
6. These limits will not be hard limits. If an event is unthrowable at this
   limit, the Director of Clubs and Organizations may approve the funding
   necessary to run the event.
7. If a club wants to purchase items for long term use (more than 1 semester),
   the club has a soft limit of $20 per club member. Usually this is seen as
   the majority of the club’s spending for the year.
8. The Committee can reimburse transportation costs in whole or in part
   (depending on cost) when there was no cheaper transportation option, up to
   but not exceeding the current suggested spending limits.

##### Food Related Rules.
1. Clubs may never purchase individual meals for club members.
2. Clubs may however purchase general meals for the club members.
3. Clubs have a hard limit of $3 per person to purchase food for events.
  * This limit does not affect clubs or events where food is the focus.
4. Questions and edge cases regarding food will be handled at the discretion of
   the Director of Clubs and Organizations.

#### Section 9. Joint Events.

A club or organization may organize the event with another Student Government
Committee and receive funding from beyond the limits of Committee for Clubs and
Organizations funding. This spending must be approved by the Officers of both
Committees.

### Article 6. The Committee for Supporting, Encouraging, and Recognizing Volunteerism.

#### Section 1. Function.

Pursuant to its mission, as defined in the Constitution ([Article 8, Section
1](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_constitution.md#section-1-mission-3)),
the Committee for Supporting, Encouraging, and Recognizing Volunteerism will
oversee the direction, continuity, and ongoing health of community service at
the College. The Committee will allocate service related organization budgets
annually and allocate funds to service related clubs upon request. The
Committee may hold or coordinate events and activities related to service and
volunteerism at the College.

#### Section 2. Officers.

The Committee will have two elected Officers, the Director and Assistant
Director of Service.

**Director of Service.** The Director of Service will run meetings of the
Committee and generally oversee the Committee’s activities. The Director will
act as the voice of the Committee and thereby market and advertise on behalf of
the Committee. The Director will attend meetings of the Student Government and
be prepared to report the activities and spending of the Committee. With the
agreement of the Assistant Director, the Director may appropriate money from
the Service Fund.

**Assistant Director of Service.** The Assistant Director of Service will
assist the Director in the operations of the Committee. The Assistant Director
will keep the financial records, meeting minutes, service activity records, and
membership list of the Committee. In the absence of the Director, the Assistant
Director will perform the duties of the Director and attend meetings of the
Student Government. With the agreement of the Director, the Assistant Director
may appropriate money from the Service Fund.

#### Section 3. General Membership.

All students are “encouraged to contribute their time and wealth to support
philanthropic endeavors of their choice” by the Founding Precepts of Olin
College (Section 5). Therefore, there is an expectation that the entire Student
Body must maintain a spirit of volunteerism. More specifically, any student
interested in helping to organize school-wide service events and who attends
meetings of the Committee will be considered part of the General Membership of
the Committee.

#### Section 4. Meetings.

The Committee will meet weekly to coordinate and plan for upcoming events and
service opportunities as well as reflect on the success of previous activities.
Meetings of the Committee will include the Officers and the General Membership.
The Director and Assistant Director of Service will also schedule regular
meetings with the Student Affairs adviser, faculty adviser, and staff adviser
to keep them up to date and find opportunities to involve the entire Olin
community in maintaining a spirit of service and volunteerism. Announcements of
meetings times and agendas will be sent to the SERV mailing list prior to
meetings.

#### Section 5. Service Fund.

The Service Fund will be allocated jointly by the Director and Assistant
Director of Service for the purpose of fulfilling the Mission and Function of
the Committee.

#### Section 6. Funding Procedures.

The Committee for Supporting, Encouraging, and Recognizing Volunteerism will
allocate the Service Fund as follows.

**School-wide Service Events.** The Director and Assistant Director of Service
and the General Membership of the Committee will be able to make purchases for
school-wide service events within an agreed upon budget for each event decided
by the Director and Assistant Director of Service.

**Service Pursuits.** Through the Service Pursuits program, students may apply
for transportation and supply funding for a service activity. These projects
must be reviewed and approved by the Director and the Assistant Director of
Service. Students may form groups in order to collectively receive more funding
for a project. We encourage larger groups of students to work together on
service projects to increase philanthropic spirit within the Community.

**Service Student Groups.** While General Student Groups are funded by the
Committee for Clubs and Organizations, Service Student Groups may be funded by
the Committee for Supporting, Encouraging, and Recognizing Volunteerism.

## Part III. Relative to the Procedures and Provisions.

### Article 9. The Student Activities Fund.

#### Section 1. Source of Funding.

The money in the Student Activities Fund comes from each student's’ payment of
the Student Activities Fee. The Student Government may vote to recommend a
change to the Student Activities Fee, but the final decision on changes to the
Student Activities Fee rests with the Board of Trustees.

#### Section 2. Virtual Funds.

Allocation Order 0 will establish and allocate money for the following virtual
funds:

1. the Student Initiatives Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the
   Council of Olin Representatives,
2. the Discretionary Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the President
   and Vice President for Finance of the Council of Olin Representatives,
3. the Class Events Funds, consisting of an individual fund for each graduating
   class, which will be managed and allocated by the relevant Class
   Representative and the Vice President for Finance,
4. the Honor Board Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the Honor
   Board,
5. the Student Events Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the Student
   Activities Committee,
6. the Clubs and Organizations Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the
   Committee for Clubs and Organizations,
7. the Service Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the Committee for
   Supporting, Encouraging, and Recognizing Volunteerism,
8. the Sports Fund, which will be managed and allocated by the College’s Office
   of Student Affairs and Resources, and
9. the Recreational Health Organization Fund, which will be managed and
   allocated by the College’s Office of Student Affairs and Resources.

Some money from the Student Activities Fund may remain unallocated for later
allocation as necessary.

#### Section 3. Funding Guidelines.

The Student Government currently has no all-encompasing funding guidelines for
the Student Activities Fund.

### Article 10. Student Government Audits.

#### Section 1. Meetings.

Audits of the Student Government will occur twice per year in the middle of
each semester. The Chair of the Honor Board and the President of the Student
Government will coordinate the time of the Audit. Audit Meetings will be open
to the Student Body.

#### Section 2. Review Process.

During the Audit meeting, one or more representatives of the Honor Board will
meet with the Student Government and discuss whether or not the Governing
Documents, including the Honor Code, are being properly and completely
executed.

#### Section 3. Discrepancy Resolution.

At each Review, should the Honor Board find that a portion of the Governing
Documents are not being followed, the Honor Board will request that the
person(s) responsible resolve the issue within an appropriate amount of time
after which the person(s) responsible must send the Honor Board a report
outlining how and when the issue was resolved. The time allowed for the
completion of the report is up to the discretion of the Honor Board. If a
report is not filed outlining the resolution of the infraction within the given
timeframe, the Honor Board may file a case report about Student Government
citing the infraction, and an abstract will be published to the community after
investigation and resolution through the Honor Board process.

### Article 11. Election Procedures.

#### Section 1. Eligibility.

The Honor Code defines eligibility for positions on the Honor Board. The
following eligibility restrictions will apply to the remaining Student
Government positions. A student may run for any combination of positions but
may only hold one voting position on the Student Government.

Rising Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors are eligible to run for:
1. President,
2. Vice President for Communications,
3. Director of Student Activities,
4. Director of Clubs and Organizations,
5. Director of Service, and
6. any of the Specialized Representative positions.

Rising Sophomores and Juniors are eligible to run for:
1. Vice President for Finance,
2. Assistant Director of Student Activities,
3. Assistant Director of Clubs and Organizations, and
4. Assistant Director of Service.

If a Rising Senior was not elected as Director of their respective Committee,
Rising Seniors are also eligible to run for:
1. Assistant Director of Student Activities,
2. Assistant Director of Clubs and Organizations, and
3. Assistant Director of Service.

The Class Representative positions are only open to students from the
particular class which the position represents.

#### Section 2. The Election Monitor.

At a meeting of the Student Government before the beginning of an election
process, the Student Government will hold an internal election for the position
of Election Monitor. The duties and responsibilities of the position are as
follows:

**Election Monitor.** The Election Monitor will facilitate all Student
Government elections occurring in a particular election season or special
election. The Election Monitor will create all necessary ballots and distribute
candidate information as outlined in the By-Laws. The Election Monitor will
enforce campaigning rules and guidelines defined in the By-Laws. The Election
Monitor will count the ballots, and the results of the election are not final
until the Election Monitor validates them.

Any member of the Student Government who does not intend to run for office may
volunteer as a candidate for the position of Election Monitor. The Election
Monitor is ineligible to run for any Student Government position while serving
as Election Monitor. At the beginning of the meeting, the presiding officer
will solicit candidates for the position. If there is only one candidate for
the position, the candidate in question takes the role of Election Monitor
without further debate or voting.

In the case of multiple candidates, each candidate shall give a brief statement
and will be asked by the President to leave the room. The remaining members of
the Student Government may deliberate and vote by excellence voting. The
candidate with the most votes becomes Election Monitor. In the case of no
candidates, the Dean of Student Life will perform the duties of the Election
Monitor.

In the case of a Special Election, where calling a meeting of the Student
Government only to elect an Election Monitor would be inexpedient, the
presiding officer of the Council will appoint an Election Monitor from the
membership of the Student Government.

#### Section 3. Spring Elections.

Elections in the spring will be held in two two-week cycles to avoid too many
positions being elected at once. In the first week of a two week cycle,
nominations will be open for at least 48 hours during which the list of
accepted nominations will be available to the Student Body. A presentation
slide serves as a student’s declaration of candidacy and is required in order
to run for office. In the second week of a two week cycle, campaigning will
take place and, at the end of the week, the polls will be open for at least 24
hours. If there are no candidates for a position or none of the candidates for
a position garner at least 50% of the vote, the position will be elected in the
next scheduled election cycle. (e.g. if the candidates for a Group A position
do not receive enough votes, the position will be re-run in the Group B cycle.)
If there is no upcoming cycle, the position will be filled in a special
election at the discretion of the presiding officer.

The following positions will be elected in the first cycle:

1. President
2. Vice President for Communications
3. Vice President for Finance
4. Director of Student Activities
5. Director of Clubs and Organizations
6. Director of Service
7. All Honor Board positions slated to be elected in the spring as defined in
   the Honor Code.

The following positions will be elected in the second cycle:

1. Assistant Director of Student Activities
2. Assistant Director of Clubs and Organizations
3. Assistant Director of Service
4. Representative to Operations
5. Representative to Marketing and Communications, and Development, Family, and
   Alumni Relations
6. Representative to the Office of Student Affairs and Resources, and
   Admissions
7. Representative for Curriculum and Faculty
8. Representative for Intercollegiate Affairs
9. Senior Class Representative
10. Junior Class Representative
11. Sophomore Class Representative
12. Senior Class Affairs Representative

Students elected to office during Spring Elections will take office as soon as
is reasonable after Patriot’s Day as agreed upon by the incoming and outgoing
Presidents.

#### Section 4. Fall Elections.

Elections in the fall will be held in one two-week cycle. In the first week of
a two week cycle, nominations will be open for at least 48 hours during which
the list of accepted nominations will be available to the Student Body. A
presentation slide serves as a student’s declaration of candidacy and is
required in order to run for office.  In the second week of a two week cycle,
campaigning will take place and, at the end of the week, the polls will be open
for at least 24 hours.

Two First Year Class Representatives and any positions not filled during the
spring elections will be elected during the fall elections.

Students elected to office during Fall Elections will take office immediately
upon election.

#### Section 5. Campaigning.

During the second week of an election cycle, between the close of nominations
and the beginning of voting, candidates may campaign in a respectful and
appropriate manner. The Election Monitor will investigate allegations of
inappropriate campaigning and will decide upon what actions to take ranging
from a warning to disqualification.

To preserve an intellectual atmosphere and guarantee equal opportunities of
election, campaigning outside of the following rules is prohibited, and
infractions to the following rules will be addressed by the Election Monitor.
Candidates may not:

1. campaign in the Academic Center or Milas Hall except when authorized by the
   Election Monitor,
2. knock on doors or otherwise disturb students in the comfort of their own
   rooms,
3. post an excessive amount of campaign materials,
4. spend their own money to purchase campaign paraphernalia,
5. send emails to the Student Body regarding their campaign, or
6. disrespect other candidates.

Candidates are responsible for removing their campaign materials as soon as
possible after the election.

To organize campaigning, the Election Monitor will email to the Student Body
the required presentation slides submitted by candidates. The Election Monitor
may also organize election-wide campaigning events at which all candidates may
participate.

#### Section 6. Voting.

At the end of the second week of an election cycle, students will vote on the
positions up for election. Members of the Student Government will be elected by
excellence voting. This means that a student may vote for as many of the
candidates as they feel would excel in, and are qualified for, the position.
Votes will be cast by secret ballot. The ballots will be prepared and
distributed by the Election Monitor.

The Honor Code specifies who is eligible to vote for Honor Board positions, but
for other Student Government positions, seniors and other students not
matriculating at Olin in the following academic year may not vote in spring
elections. Class Representative positions may only be voted for by students in
the particular graduating class which the position represents. Students that
consider themselves members of multiple graduating classes may choose which
Class Representative position they will vote for, providing they only vote for
one Class Representative position.

For each position, the winner will be the student with the most excellence
votes and who has garnered at least 50% of the votes. That is to say the winner
must be considered qualified by at least 50% of voters. If no candidate meets
these conditions, the election for that position will occur in the next
scheduled election cycle. If a position is not filled during the first spring
election cycle, the election for the position will occur again during the
second spring election cycle. If a position is not filled during the second
spring election cycle, the election for the position will occur again during
the fall election cycle. If a position is not filled during the fall election
cycle, a special election for the position will be held.

#### Section 7. Impeachment.

Any student may initiate Student Government impeachment proceedings at any
time. Impeachable offenses include:

1. Major violations of the Honor Code
2. Abuse of power
3. Gross neglect of duty

To begin impeachment proceedings against a Student Government officer not on
the Honor Board, a student may submit a request for impeachment, including
specific charge(s), to the Chair of the Honor Board. The Chair of the Honor
Board will convene a meeting of the Student Government no more than five
business days from the day the request is submitted and notify members of the
Student Government of the time and location of the meeting within one business
day of the receipt of the request.

All members of the Student Government not under investigation will be
considered the quorum for Student Government impeachment hearings. Impeachment
hearings will be moderated by the Chair of the Honor Board.

The reporter and reported will have the chance to present their argument and
call witnesses. Each are responsible for their respective witnesses.

At the end of the meeting, all members of the Student Government not currently
under investigation will vote on the removal of the student(s) in question.  A
vote of 75% of the eligible membership is required to remove a student from
office.

Impeachment proceedings against members of the Honor Board will occur according
the to the procedures specified in the Honor Code. If a request for impeachment
has been submitted against the Chair of the Honor Board, proceedings will be
presided over by another member of the Honor Board, as elected by the Vice
Chair and General Members.

#### Section 8. Resignation.

A member of the Student Government may resign from office by submitting a
written letter of resignation to the President of the Student Government or, in
the case of a President's resignation, the Vice President for Communications.

#### Section 9. Vacancies.

A vacancy in the one of the three Executive positions of the Student Government
will be filled by an internal election within the Council of Olin
Representatives where any Council member is eligible. The vote will be done by
excellence voting while the candidates are out of the room.

A vacancy in the one of the three Committee Director positions of the Student
Government will be filled by their respective assistant director.

A vacancy in any Honor Board position will be filled through the vacancy
procedures specified in the Honor Code.

Any other vacancy will be filled by a special election.

#### Section 10. Special Elections.

Given the importance of all Student Government positions being filled, Special
Elections will occur over an abbreviated timeline compared to normal elections
and will therefore occur over one week. Nominations will be open for at least
48 hours. Normal campaigning will occur during Special Elections. A the end of
the week, the polls will be open for 24 hours and follow the same voting
procedures as normal elections. Students elected to a position through a
Special Election will take office immediately upon election.

#### Section 11. Transition.

In order to maintain institutional memory, each elected member of the Student
Government will keep a transition document which they will continually update
during their time in office. Each official’s transition document will be kept
in a central location which can be accessed by the current members of the
Student Government. Each elected official must meet with their successor to
discuss their respective transition document upon leaving office.

### Article 12. Amendment Procedures.

#### Section 1. Amending the Constitution.

Any member of the Student Body may propose an amendment to the Student
Government Constitution by presenting the amendment in written form to the
President of the Student Government. The Student Government will review the
amendment at its next meeting and decide if it is appropriate and will not
conflict with the Honor Code. However, it is not the duty of the Student
Government to decide if an amendment is “good” or “worth implementing.”

If the amendment passes review, the President will call a Town Meeting within
three school weeks. The Vice President for Communications will send an
announcement containing the finalized amendment to the entire Student Body at
least one week in advance of the Town Meeting. The Student Body will decide at
a Town Meeting to decide whether or not to approve the amendment. The Vice
President for Communications will send an announcement describing the outcome
of the meeting to the entire Student Body within 24 hours of the close of the
meeting.

#### Section 2. Amending the By-Laws.

Any member of the Student Body may propose an amendment to the By-Laws by
presenting the amendment in written form to the President of the Student
Government at least one week in advance of the meeting of the Student
Government at which the author would like the amendment to be addressed.

The Vice President for Communications will send an announcement to the Student
Body about the amendment at least three days in advance of the next Student
Government meeting to allow for a three day reading period. During the meeting
at which the amendment will be addressed, the Student Government will hear
testimony from every student who wishes to speak and will engage in open
discussion about the amendment. The amendment may be amended by a simple
majority of the Student Government during the meeting.

When discussion has concluded, the President will call for a vote on the
amendment. Per the Student Government Constitution, approval of 75% of the
voting members of the Student Government will be required to pass the
amendment. The Vice President for Communications will send an announcement
detailing any changes to the By-Laws and describing the outcome of the meeting
to the entire Student Body within 24 hours of the close of the meeting.

#### Section 3. Referendum.

If working through the Student Government yields no result, any member of the
Student Body may propose an amendment to either the Constitution or the By-Laws
and bypass approval of the Student Government by presenting to the President of
the Student Government the amendment in written form accompanied by the
supporting signatures of at least 10% of the Student Body.

The President must call a Town Meeting within three school weeks. The Vice
President for Communications will send an announcement containing the finalized
amendment to the entire Student Body at least one week in advance of the Town
Meeting. The Student Body will decide at a Town Meeting whether or not to
approve the amendment.

#### Section 4. Town Meetings.

The President of the Student Government may call a Town Meeting to hold a
community discussion, to update the Student Body on the activities of the
Student Government or the Administration, to vote on an amendment to the
Constitution, or, in the case of Referendum, to vote on an amendment to the
By-Laws.

Town Meetings where a vote will be held to amend a Governing Document will
require quorum of one half of the Student Body. Amendments may not be changed
during Town Meetings with the exception that typos may be corrected. An open
discussion and a question and answer session must precede a vote to amend a
Governing Document.

At the close of the Town Meeting, all present students will vote by secret
ballot, once per amendment with the option to either accept or reject the
amendment. If quorum is reached and an amendment receives more than 50% of the
votes of those present, the amendment passes and the Governing Document is
changed accordingly. Otherwise, the Governing Document remains unchanged. The
Vice President for Communications will send an announcement describing the
outcome of the meeting to the entire Student Body within 24 hours of the close
of the meeting.

### Article 13. Transparency.

#### Section 1. Purpose.

To make the Student Government well-organized and accessible to the Student
Body, the Student Government and its Committees will strive to effectively
communicate with the Student Body through use of email, school-administered
file shares, and physical documents.

#### Section 2. Transparency Documents.

The Student Government will maintain a number of running documents describing
the actions of the Student Government for the duration of its existence. The
purpose of these documents is to gather information about the Student
Government in an easily-read way. These Transparency Documents will be
continuously updated by the members of the Student Government, and will be as
follows:

**The List of Official Actions.** This document is to record every Official
Action of the Student Government and the Council of Olin Representatives, which
are described in [Article 1, Section
4](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-4-official-actions)
and [Article 2, Section 8](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-8-official-actions)
respectively. The document will be in reverse-chronological order (with the
most recent Official Action at the top), and contain the full text of every
Official Action, as well as a brief summary of the action if necessary.

**The Report on the Student Activities Fund.** As described in [Article 2,
Section 2](https://github.com/olin/studentgovernment/blob/master/student_government_bylaws.md#section-2-executives),
The Vice President for Finance will create a State of the Student Activities
Fund report once per semester. A copy of this semesterly report will be added
to an ongoing Report on the Student Activities Fund, which will be in
reverse-chronological order (with the most recent report at the top).

**The Meeting Minutes.** Each meeting of the Student Government and its
Committees, including Town Meetings, will have minutes detailing the topics
discussed in the meeting and actions that were taken. Copies of these minutes
will be kept in a central location Meetings which the presiding officer of the
meeting deem private and inappropriate for general knowledge, such as Honor
Board hearings, are exempted.

**The Governing Documents History.** All past versions of the Governing
Documents will be kept in a central location. Minor changes, such as changes to
grammar, spelling, references, or names of people, digital, or physical
locations, are not required to have a unique version.

Additionally, each Transparency Document must contain the name of a current
member of the Student Government, specifically identified as the contact for
questions or comments regarding the Transparency Document.

#### Section 3. Call to Action.

An annual Call to Action will be sent to the Student Body in the first two
weeks of classes each school year. This Call to Action will inform the Student
Body of the core-discussion mailing list, of the locations of the Transparency
Documents, of the elected members of the Student Government, and of the planned
open meeting times of the Student Government and its Committees.
